---
title: "Comprehensive clinical and genetic profiling of Vietnamese pediatric hearing loss: a multi-region exome sequencing study"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2026-04-08-paper-HMG
excerpt: 'Research Article'
date: 2026-04-08
venue: 'Human Molecular Genetics'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddag027'
citation: 'Nguyen Cong Hoang, Duc-Minh Nguyen-Le, Huyen-Trang Thi Tran, Thanh Tra Nguyen, Manh Hung Nguyen, Dai-Phu Ngo, Giau Le, Hoang-Kim Van-Ho, Gia Huy Ha, Tran Trung Anh, Viet Hoang, Le Thi Huong Lan, Nguyen Minh Tuan, Dao Minh Nguyet, Bui Bang Giang, Le Dinh Thanh, Phu Hung Nguyen, Phuc-Loi Luu, Comprehensive clinical and genetic profiling of Vietnamese pediatric hearing loss: a multi-region exome sequencing study, Human Molecular Genetics, Volume 35, Issue 6, 2026, ddag027, https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddag027'
---

## Abstract

Congenital hearing loss (HL) in the Vietnamese population remains understudied despite its genetic diversity, limiting our understanding of its genetic etiology and hindering the development of effective, population-specific diagnostic strategies. In this descriptive cross-sectional whole-exome sequencing study, we enrolled 150 children with congenital non-syndromic HL (NSHL) from hospitals and hearing centers across Northern, Central, and Southern Vietnam to describe the genetic landscape of HL and provide new insights into rare and HL-associated variants. Clinical variant annotation was performed for 1589 deafness-associated genes, focusing on pathogenic, likely pathogenic, and variants of uncertain significance. Genetic factors strongly associated with NSHL accounted for 7.33% (11 of 150) of moderate-to-profound HL cases, involving both autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive inheritance patterns. Four variants across three genes were identified, namely _GJB2_:c.235del (p.L79CfsTer3), _GJB2_:c.109G > A (p.V37I), _COCH_:c.538C > T (p.R180Ter), and _MYO6_:c.2751dup (p.Q918TfsTer24). Two of these variants demonstrated a trend toward disease enrichment within the cohort, with the highest minor allele frequency (MAF) observed in _GJB2_:c.109G > A at 11%, followed by _MYO6_:c.2751dup at 2%. Although _GJB2_:c.235del showed a relatively high MAF of 1.3%, the observed minor alleles did not differ significantly from those in the East Asian and KHV control populations. These findings reveal distinct clinical and molecular profiles of congenital HL, providing essential knowledge for the development of targeted screening and diagnostic strategies tailored to the Vietnamese pediatric population.

**Keywords**: Genetic Diseases, Inborn, Population Studies, Congenital Hearing Loss, Whole Exome Sequencing, Congenital, Hereditary, and Neonatal Diseases and Abnormalities.
